


	To understand the fine folk of Stygixtown, you need some preamble.   Sixty years ago Loriet was, well, as Loriet always has been. A hash environment filled with beautiful and terrifying monsters and Atieri machinations. The Dragons made the rules. They were few, but quite simple; stay out of the sky and don’t grow too big for yer own britches.  There were scattered towns and villages all struggling against collapse. One day they were there and the next they weren’t. Another few months would pass and the survivors or one or the other would set up camp in another locale, normally a few wash ups had made their way into the mix. Then some big headed dwarf named Golgrin Thundercuntsaw. (Who’s father was named Bolligrin Thundercuntsaw, that part’ll come in later) He made his way to the people of Owl Island and eventually claimed himself leader. From there he had the resources and the inspiring presence to send others to delve deep in his name. He found some Atieri treasure that helped him establish safe resource lines and then something special that the dragons soon came to fear. Taking the seat of power from them he was free to do his “great task” of a unified Loriet under the new Bollarian Empire.

	Golgrins vision of a unified Loriet was all well and good except it came with his exclusive mold of what was acceptable as well as whom. The good people of Stygix were mere farmers and tradesman doing their best to survive in the world. Golgrins people saw that they were folk of all kinds living in harmony, the beast folk, birdfolk, sea folk and even some of his people, dwarves. Stygix was proof against his perfect utopia. He declared the people of Stygix uncivilized and unredeemable, marking each and everyone of us for the hangman’s knot. Our merchant ships were sunk on the seas, or homes and farms burned. Golgrin effectively replaced the rule of Dragon and arguably his rules were simply, well his rule, his one rule. Was for us to die.

 	When the West met the East, Edaive J. Teach, Black Beard made his stand. He rallied fourty ships and every able bodied man, woman, and child then brought the fight to the Bollies. He took their fleet by surprise south of Crescent Cape. In the dead of night he set upon the anchored ships killing  hundreds while they slept. He left only one flagship untouched, the Golden Gull. The rest he set ablaze.  Oh the fear that one lonely ship’s crew must have felt. They say the Golden Gull must have been lucky to have been spared, but the reverse could be said for its crew. They alone had to return to tell Ol King Golgrin what had become of his fleet.

	After that Golgrin and his Bollies kept mostly to the West. For fear of what Black Beard, a mere cobbler, would do lest they cross too far.   Though it was only for a time I would say. They then built special ships, King’s Marks they were called. Enhanced vessels that could do all manner of things, from plunging beneath the sea, to passing right through solid rock unharmed, and even able to disappear and reappear hundreds of feet away.   Once they had their bolstered fleet and their King’s Marks they began again with their “great task.” 

	Black Beard kept the people in line, they swore they’d follow no others. Black Beard being clever knew he may not survive the wars to come, but if Stygix and it’s people were to, he would need others that they would trust. He named Three to succeed him as his First Mates. He named Samlin, a Dratieri born to Stygix and proven battle after battle. He Named Tay-Zo a Girgoff wise and last of his kind. And lastly he named Thomas Harlin a wash up like he, whom he declared to be lucky, the same as the Golden Gull.   Black Beard decided to set his First Mates a task of their own. To undermine every Bolly plan they could, to not die with a clean sword, and to claim a King’s Mark for their own.

	Tay-Zo never claimed a ship, said that sailing required depth perception and swore his life to the island. Said it would be his ship and its people, his crew. And he would care for them the same.
Samlin was the first to claim his King’s Mark. He tracked down ‘the Desolate’ a King’s Mark that could produce poison and navigate the mists of the inner islands. He renamed the vessel ‘the Fog.’
Then in an unexpected turn a young Seaborn Rivulet, the daughter of Molzoz Navareth, a pirate who had not yet been swayed to join the people of Stygix captured a King’s Mark, ‘the Subnaut.’  She brought this ship to Black Beard against her father’s wishes and he named her First Mate to fill where Tay-Zo had left void. 

	All that was left was for Thomas to get his own King’s Mark. He set out with a small crew, determined not to set foot on land until he had one. He set his eyes on the Golden Gull. He was at sea for sixteen months, staying true to his word. In that time he never got word that his Captain was set upon by the Bollies and chased into the Northern Seas where the Shadow Kraken engulfed the ship's crew and all. When he returned to Stygix, prize in hand, there was nothing but chaos as no one on the island knew who to follow. And each of the First Mates was too proud and distrustful of the others to step down and give another the claim of Captain. The Bollies have seen what we are capable of when we are unified, and they have set hard to keep that day from coming again.
